Michael J. Harris:  Cool. How's it going, Matt?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Good. Good to see you. Is this recording absolutely everything? Is it multimodal? Or is it just the audio transcript, you know.
Michael J. Harris:  Multimodal. Okay. Cool.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Cause, then we can use it for other things too.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Good good to see you again. It's good to have you been since we met last.
Michael J. Harris:  I'm doing well. I'm enjoying the the Bay Area weather.
Michael J. Harris:  But there's yeah. My personal life is fine.
Michael J. Harris:  The work life is a little bit
Michael J. Harris:  a little bit stressful, a little bit annoying. What about yourself?
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, about the same
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And let's let's go right into it. Let me make sure I'm clear. When we talked last it sounded like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you've had a lot of hopes and dreams and ambitions, but
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  feels a bit stalled and a bit blocked, and maybe not making all the progress you want. And you, if if you've
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if this coaching works for you, you want to feel like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you're accelerating your path toward your toward a promotion, or at least having a better career trajectory am I? Am I understanding correctly kind of
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  what you're hoping to get out of this relationship together?
Michael J. Harris:  That's right. Yeah, I I'm focused on the promotion.
Michael J. Harris:  not because not primarily because of the extra money and title or whatever, but really because it will give me more scope to do more ambitious and more interesting projects. Nice.
Michael J. Harris:  you know, at our company we don't.
Michael J. Harris:  If if you're not at a certain level they don't trust you to initiate.
Michael J. Harris:  Sure pursue more ambitious projects.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And maybe just say a word or 2 about that increased scope or that increased ambitious Ness. What? What?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  What does Linkedin consider that scope, and that ambition that you aspire to go do that kind of work that you're maybe not given permission to right now to say a few words about that for me.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, I think, being more involved in the actual.
Michael J. Harris:  real technical decisions, the architectural decisions.
Michael J. Harris:  the big picture decisions, at least
Michael J. Harris:  not the big big picture business decisions. But the big picture technical decisions
Michael J. Harris:  that will guide our team towards the future make our team more efficient, make our team more valuable to the rest of the company.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice makes sense, but.
Michael J. Harris:  Cut down on our.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So we have tons of operational problems that.
Michael J. Harris:  Plague us, and I have tons. I have tons of ideas about how to fix those so.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice.
Michael J. Harris:  Get getting to a level where I can really push that forward, I think would be.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  No, it makes sense that that'd be exciting. I can see where that would be engaging for you. Let's maybe just talk about what your top
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  2 or 3
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  frustrations, or blockers or barriers to that kind of career progression that you're you're hoping for. What? What are your top? 3 that are really frustrating right now, at least. And are they the same as the last time we talked, or is it? Is it evolving.
Michael J. Harris:  It's evolving. I I think maybe last time we talked
Michael J. Harris:  I had a little bit of a rosier view, because
Michael J. Harris:  this project was going a lot better, you know.
Michael J. Harris:  Couple months ago we were doing
Michael J. Harris:  seemed like we were making decent progress.
Michael J. Harris:  whereas now it's really starting to the progress is really starting to grind down and grind to a halt.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Because.
Michael J. Harris:  Well.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Why does it seem to be grinding down.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah. There's a number of issues going on.
Michael J. Harris:  I I don't like to point fingers, but my real assessment is that the main. The tech lead of the project
Michael J. Harris:  is just not leading it. Well,
Michael J. Harris:  that manifests in a couple different ways. One is that
Michael J. Harris:  the you know, the most tangible
Michael J. Harris:  annoyance is that he sits on my code reviews.
Michael J. Harris:  So I'll write a piece of code.
Michael J. Harris:  publish it, you know. Publish it for review, and then
Michael J. Harris:  it'll take him a day or 2, or 3, or longer, sometimes to get back to me.
Michael J. Harris:  Which which really means, I mean in theory, you could.
Michael J. Harris:  you could be sort of doubling up like
Michael J. Harris:  writing some code, publishing it, then switching over another piece and publishing that.
Michael J. Harris:  But in practice that's really hard to do, and and often is inefficient.
Michael J. Harris:  So so if if it takes me
Michael J. Harris:  2 days to get a code review that mean, that's that puts a real high
Michael J. Harris:  upper bound on my productivity. So you know a piece of code.
Michael J. Harris:  The code might not take me that long to write. I'm a you know. I'm a pretty
Michael J. Harris:  pretty solid engineer. A lot of this stuff is not super high concept.
Michael J. Harris:  so maybe it takes 4 h to write it.
Michael J. Harris:  Then I publish it, and I wait 2 days so like, so like like
Michael J. Harris:  do the math on that, and you'll see that it really is a big slowdown.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And not just a slowdown. But if I'm hearing you, it's also frustrating, because you'd really like to move forward. But you're like having to wait for that feedback. Is that correct?
Michael J. Harris:  Absolutely.
Michael J. Harris:  It's also
Michael J. Harris:  not very valuable. I think the concept of a code review. It's not very valuable to me. Concept of go code review is that sort of like. The more senior guy is giving the more junior guy some like
Michael J. Harris:  tips and tricks, and like making sure that
Michael J. Harris:  you're not going way off the the way off the trail
Michael J. Harris:  right in in this project. I don't.
Michael J. Harris:  I don't need any help, I don't. And the the
Michael J. Harris:  once or twice. The feedback was sort of interesting, and maybe like a tiny bit valuable. But
Michael J. Harris:  there's nothing that is valuable enough to justify the slowdowns.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I got it.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Let's let's drill into this a little bit. Have you? Did you talk to that? That technical lead about this situation and
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  the consequence on the team, and the consequence on your productivity.
Michael J. Harris:  Yes, yes, I complained to him about it.
Michael J. Harris:  In fact, I complained to him.
Michael J. Harris:  this is sort of a weird
Michael J. Harris:  issue. I I complained about it to him. He didn't really change his ways.
Michael J. Harris:  I complained about it to my manager.
Michael J. Harris:  she at some point, I mean she sort of agrees that the projects taking too long, it's not going fast enough. So so this is a real issue.
Michael J. Harris:  I mean, it's not just me that feels this way.
Michael J. Harris:  At 1 point she sort of gave me a green light to say, you know.
Michael J. Harris:  just get just get radical. Who's another colleague of ours to give you a thumbs up on the code review and then just publish it.
Michael J. Harris:  But then the Tech Lead Guide came in and made a big stink. So it was a big.
Michael J. Harris:  you know, not like a serious confrontation.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  But an unpleasant disagreement.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I gotcha.
Michael J. Harris:  So he definitely knows.
Michael J. Harris:  I'm not sure if you're familiar with this.
Michael J. Harris:  This probably is unique to Linkedin, but
Michael J. Harris:  he feels so so, Linkedin. There's this whole evaluation scheme for how they promote people. He feels that it's it's important for his promotion efforts
Michael J. Harris:  to leave these reviews so like.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I see.
Michael J. Harris:  Like looking at the code, analyzing something that might be wrong.
Michael J. Harris:  because it's sort of a paper trail in the sense that.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yup!
Michael J. Harris:  It produces an artifact.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Right.
Michael J. Harris:  Viewed by other people and say, like, okay.
Michael J. Harris:  this guy gives a lot of good code reviews. So he must be.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure.
Michael J. Harris:  Promotion, worthy.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure. Sure.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  No, that makes total sense. Well, let let's drill into this one. And then you. I also asked for 2 or 3 others.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  but in our hour together let's start here, and then we'll we'll get out of the details here and go to the other couple just to make sure we cover at least a few of your barriers on this one. I'm wondering aloud, have you? Have you thought about it? Not just complaining, but also suggesting new things he could do
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  that would also get at the fact that you're pointing out. He wants to get promoted to. He wants to look good, so it'd be better for him to give good code reviews in a more timely fashion. Maybe he's got constraints himself, or he's busy with other stuff. But is there a way you could off? You could suggest new things he could do that would kind of get his needs met and yours.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And if so, what what could those be? What's like? Some action he could start to take, that he hasn't been doing, or that you could do together.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That would be constructive, going forward without referring to the past.
Michael J. Harris:  Right? Yeah, that's a good idea. It it I haven't thought of that.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Well, what? Just 1 1 idea, what? What's 1 thing he could do
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  like, for example, could he? If you're that quick consistently with writing code. Could you have a check in every other day? Type of thing?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Or is that too much like I'm not trying to over engineer it here for you, but that could be an example where it's like a new thing you could do together, gets his needs met, gets your needs met without without telling him he did a crappy job in the past. You know what I mean.
Michael J. Harris:  I I mean another. Another part of the issues that are at play here is that he's kind of over scheduled.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  So I it. It might be a difficult to get on his calendar. We we also have
Michael J. Harris:  bi-weekly. We have 2 sync meetings a week.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That's with the team. So it's not just him and me. But it's with the team.
Michael J. Harris:  But yeah, I mean, I could. I could try to potentially schedule a regular code code check-in session.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Or or maybe, is there a way to do it asynchronously? So you don't have to book time with him, but he has, like a tickler at like 4 45 at the end of every other day. How long does it take for him to look at code on average? And what's the range of time. Is it 15 min to an hour, or what? What's the typical code review on his in terms of his time?
Michael J. Harris:  I actually.
Michael J. Harris:  So I don't know how much
Michael J. Harris:  of his time it's taking. I I only know how long I wait.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure. Obviously, I'm just saying if you could speculate and maybe maybe give it some thought. Maybe after this coaching, maybe that's some homework you could think about what new actions he could start to take, you know not wouldn't be threatening to him, would meet his needs and yours. I'm just brainstorming with you some options
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  like, if you think, if if you think it only takes them 15 min on average, then say every other day, could you just put a note on your calendar for yourself to look at my code and give email me some feedback. That kind of thing. Or is that is that counter cultural? Does? Does the feedback review have to be live synchronous.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  traditionally, Linkedin.
Michael J. Harris:  But no, it did. It doesn't. It's supposed to be asynchronous. Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Oh, okay, well, then.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So that's a little bit more flexible for him, right if he can.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Is that something? I I mean, would that be something you'd be comfortable asking him for, like a tip
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  self to remind you that you're so productive that
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  maybe it's every 3rd day. Maybe it's not every other day, but some time frame which gets you a safety valve. You're not frustrated, you know.
Michael J. Harris:  Right.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  If he commits to it then, and he's got a reminder on his calendar, he's more likely to follow through.
Michael J. Harris:  Right? Yeah, that that's a good idea. I'll I'll raise it with him and see if
Michael J. Harris:  if if that would work into a schedule.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And how about the same question on that manager? It sounded like the manager you complain, but maybe I mean, typically managers supposed to remove barriers for people right? And so
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  is there a new action the manager could do
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  that would better support you here, too.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  In addition to I mean she she tried to support me already by kind of
Michael J. Harris:  you know, having having my other coworker
Michael J. Harris:  giving a green light to the other coworker to.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure.
Michael J. Harris:  Improve the code reviews.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure. But then that sounded if I heard you correctly. That sounded like it irritated your technical lead, because now he feels like he's getting.
Michael J. Harris:  Yep.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  He's getting or he's not getting the advancement he wants, because it's kind of undermining him. So I'm just wondering if there's another. Is there another creative action that wouldn't threaten your technical lead? That would be supportive like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if if
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if your technical lead starts to do this asynchronous thing with his tickler that you praise him behind his back to her, that she says something positive to him about it, for example, that she that she's heard good things about him being more timely, or something like that.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, that's that's a good idea of of having them sort of.
Michael J. Harris:  But I guess, helping him feel better
Michael J. Harris:  and helping us get more work done.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay, what else? I'll ask her.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Something else. Maybe there's something else that I don't know your manager at all. Is there something else your manager could do that would make
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  would boost your career, maybe not specific to your technically, but some other barrier, because it sounds like there's more noise than just your technical lead here. That might be a barrier to the project. Is that fair.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, it does.
Michael J. Harris:  There's many.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay, what? What are some other ones? Maybe you can tell me what the other ones are, and then we'll revisit your manager and new things she might be able to do to support you.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  So one big issue is that we're the the project is basically
Michael J. Harris:  the goal of the project is to take an old decrepit system that somebody wrote 5 years ago
Michael J. Harris:  or more, and works on this old platform that is now unmaintained and nobody
Michael J. Harris:  it's it's like basically dying because it's not maintained.
Michael J. Harris:  So take that old system and port it to a new system, which is
Michael J. Harris:  the new hot. You know the new fad, the new fashion.
Michael J. Harris:  you know, makes sense on paper. The issue is that
Michael J. Harris:  this new platform is not fully baked.
Michael J. Harris:  So there, you know, it's it's they're billing it. It's moving forward.
Michael J. Harris:  But there's still a lot of glitches and
Michael J. Harris:  shortcomings of this of this new system.
Michael J. Harris:  I don't. I don't know that that one probably is not something where you can really help me that much, because it's
Michael J. Harris:  it just is what it
Michael J. Harris:  I mean. Maybe you can help me like how to negotiate with the the partner team. I I don't know. I I this might just be like a intrinsic technical limitation.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Well, say say more about it sounds like it's buggy. It sounds like it's
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  in Alpha or Beta. It's not as mature as the older system. But there's some reason the company's moving to the new system. Is that correct?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I mean, is there? Is it got better performance? It's more. It's more auto scaling, I mean, what? What's unique about the new platform.
Michael J. Harris:  It's more of a self service model where?
Michael J. Harris:  You know, there's this whole search. There's a search in for a team.
Michael J. Harris:  So if you want to do a search project.
Michael J. Harris:  You have to work with a search in for teams to like, get enough hardware, get enough resources.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yep.
Michael J. Harris:  This new model. It's more like a self service where we don't have to like.
Michael J. Harris:  Go to lots of meetings and like
Michael J. Harris:  coordinate with them closely, but we can just like
Michael J. Harris:  users like an Admin panel, and say, like, I need 10 machines. I need.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice.
Michael J. Harris:  Ladimentary.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yes, that's on me.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I got it. That makes sense.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So it sounds more empowering. If I were you. That sounds more empowering. I have to go dink around with a bunch of meetings. I can just get the resources I need to do my work. Is that accurate.
Michael J. Harris:  That's right. Yeah, again, on paper. In theory, it's a good idea.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay, what? What are the glitches? What are the disconnects.
Michael J. Harris:  So one issue is that they changed certain technical
Michael J. Harris:  details in a way that makes it
Michael J. Harris:  in in a way that makes it difficult to port the old system. So there's a big code base
Michael J. Harris:  for the old system. The new system does roughly similar thing
Michael J. Harris:  with a better, I guess. User interface in some sense.
Michael J. Harris:  So we just want to take this old code base and move it onto this new system. So in theory, like, it doesn't seem that hard, right?
Michael J. Harris:  But they made some weird technical decisions
Michael J. Harris:  that that turns out now it is hard, or it's not as easy, as easy as it should be.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  there's another issue about
Michael J. Harris:  you know. Linkedin loves to have Linkedin loves to have all of these
Michael J. Harris:  tools sort of like trying to play nice with each other. So there's a whole, there's a whole Linkedin machine learning framework.
Michael J. Harris:  And these search people want to like have that framework supported natively on their thing.
Michael J. Harris:  which again on paper, sounds nice, but in reality it's like a whole. The the machine learning framework is a little bit half baked. So the search people are trying to onboard this half baked
Michael J. Harris:  thing.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And that that makes sense. What is, what is the consequence of that complexity in that less than ideal situation on you and your work and your frustration about your own career.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  like, where? How is it? A barrier or a bottleneck, or a constraint to you and your career goals.
Michael J. Harris:  So in in my mind
Michael J. Harris:  to to get to the next career point, I need to deliver this project, you know. Make it make it successful.
Michael J. Harris:  this project requires, you know, this new platform to work properly. Among others.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  It's not working properly.
Michael J. Harris:  Not working properly. That's right.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Is there something? What would it? What would it take to get it there? Is it more resources of other departments that you're not in? Is there? What has to happen to get it? To work properly?
Michael J. Harris:  So. So I think there a big, a big hurdle for them is they have to.
Michael J. Harris:  They feel that they. They are feeling feeling pressure on their side to onboard all of these again. Strange Linkedin
Michael J. Harris:  frameworks. If they didn't have to do that they'd be a lot closer. I think.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  Would be simpler.
Michael J. Harris:  So maybe we could figure out a way to, you know again, maneuver organizationally, so that they
Michael J. Harris:  have the option of giving us a product. That
Michael J. Harris:  does what we need, but doesn't do. The full set of.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Right.
Michael J. Harris:  Features.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, I like that. That makes a lot of sense. I'm wondering aloud if that idea is something you could take to your manager and saying, Can you help make this happen? Because here's how it constrains my work. And then our collective goals. Is that is that something you could explore with her.
Michael J. Harris:  I'll bring that up. I'll bring that up. That that could be.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Because typically, that's the perfect example of where managers can remove barriers right? They can go get resources. They can go fight battles. You can't fight on your own, or or at least help you see political, blind spots that maybe maybe you're not even aware of there. Why, why, that cluster is the way that it is.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I don't. I don't mean cluster in the computing sense, I mean in the f sense.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay. So we talked a bit about your technical lead and some new actions. There. We talked about your manager and some of those constraints. What is there any other barrier? Is? There is enough fallout from that, Radhika, that you need to? Is there a relationship
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  repair that's required here on some of the fallout that's happened from the most recent past you talked about? Or is that part? Okay, it's just a blip in the radar.
Michael J. Harris:  I think I mean, I think
Michael J. Harris:  one issue going on here is that
Michael J. Harris:  the tech lead feels a little bit threatened by me.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay, because.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, he, I think he's a guy who did a lot of code
Michael J. Harris:  10 years ago in his previous career. Then he got promoted to a certain point, and instead of writing code, he just writes documents all day long
Michael J. Harris:  and goes to meetings.
Michael J. Harris:  So I think he sees me as being someone who
Michael J. Harris:  like I do write code and like, I don't have any problems. I just
Michael J. Harris:  get it done and send it.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Right.
Michael J. Harris:  So I think he sees me as someone's a little bit threatening in terms of all right.
Michael J. Harris:  Here's this, you know, more junior guy who's like not really
Michael J. Harris:  listening to my advice? Not necessarily. Whatever.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. What's 1 thing that your technical lead, honestly is legitimately, really good at that. You'd like to that. You either respect, or you'd like to learn.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  But he's he's maybe better than you in one area.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, that's an interesting question. Definitely knows a lot.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  What's what's give me an example.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  especially of an area you'd like.
Michael J. Harris:  Like to learn.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  About that. Maybe he knows more than you do.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  Well, he he knows. I mean, he does a good job, I think, on keeping up on
Michael J. Harris:  new innovations in machine learning.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That. That's a struggle for most people. Isn't it? Moving area, right?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Have you ever told him that you you see him as somebody very good at keeping up on things, and and how hard that can be for you at times.
Michael J. Harris:  No, I I haven't. But.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So just a thought that that's another new action you could consider taking again. Honestly, I'm not saying, make anything up. Praise is unique, because it can really soften whatever threat threat he may feel from you, because praise activates reciprocity and liking. And so he'll feel as long as it's sincere.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And you know, and the more honest praise you give him, the less threatened he's going to feel, the deeper your relationship is going to be so. Is that something you like the next time you don't do it through email. Obviously, you want to do this in person. When's the next time you see him in person.
Michael J. Harris:  I think we have a
Michael J. Harris:  an event in a couple in a week or 2 I could.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yes, it's not inappropriate, right? You wouldn't necessarily
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I don't know the context of this event, but if it's 1 on one, it's appropriate sometimes, though, too, this is what I was hinting at with the How could your manager help with him? Sometimes it's better to praise people behind their backs
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  right? So if.
Michael J. Harris:  Interesting.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So you can praise him to his face. That's great. But
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  occasionally that may be inappropriate or feels awkward, or you just don't have a chance to see him. So if he also hears praise from his manager that the manager saying, You're saying nice things about him that will soften the blows or so soften his worries about you too.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay, yeah. I never thought about that. That's a good idea.
Michael J. Harris:  No one.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And what that means is ideally.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you don't have to do it just right now, but you want to harvest
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  honest examples of where he did something good or something you're impressed by, and you proactively give him this honest praise. Right? So again, it's not just a 1 off. It's like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  as long as it's true. I mean, if he's full of shit and you don't, you know I'm not saying make it up. But if he's really, honestly, I find it hard to keep up on machine learning stuff.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah. And
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  it just moves so damn fast. I don't know how anybody could be really good at that. So somebody is, I mean, that's maybe are there techniques that you might want him to teach you of how he keeps up on it in spite of his busy schedule? Or are you doing the same things? He's just really good at it?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Or, do you know, do you know what techniques he uses to stay up to speed on it.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, no, I don't. I don't.
Michael J. Harris:  No.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So is that something you could ask him, you know, you know, hey? I I really respect the fact that
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you seem to be always up to date. I find it a struggle sometimes. What's could you teach me? Your strategies? Right? So asking for advice is with Ben Franklin technique? My youngest is named Franklin, after Benjamin, so I'm quite fond of Benjamin Franklin.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I think I told you my eldest name, Feynman. I don't have any clever tricks for this coaching with Feynman, but for Franklin asking for advice, he did it back in the 17 hundreds on his worst enemy, and he borrowed a book and asked for advice, and like they became friends. So.
Michael J. Harris:  Good. Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And the more it's a bit of an honor for him for him to hear you tell you. If he knows you're technically good and you're you're asking him to teach you something. Then that's that's another way. It's a kind of praise. And it's developmental for you, too, because what if he thinks of something that you hadn't thought of.
Michael J. Harris:  And yeah, that's a good. That's a good idea, I'll say also.
Michael J. Harris:  And and this is more.
Michael J. Harris:  This is probably not. Now that I'm thinking about it.
Michael J. Harris:  This is more true, this he he's he knows a lot about the Linkedin infrastructure. So so.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That's nice. Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  Infrastructure.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Has he had, like a much longer career at Linkedin than you have.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  There you go. So that's another class of phrase and things he could teach you about. Maybe could could he have some unique technical insights into that complexity of this bleeding edge system. That's a bit of a constraint for everybody on your team.
Michael J. Harris:  Oh, man!
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  But he could. Maybe maybe he could. You could ask him for his insights about that, and you can express to him your frustration with it and ask for his technical expertise because he may have a different camera angle than you on that.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  or at least some strategies. Maybe you're not thinking about? Is that possible.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, I I think he's also frustrated.
Michael J. Harris:  Would that with the slowness of that new platform,
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  He said something to you about it.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, he's he's mentioned it in meetings.
Michael J. Harris:  Right?
Michael J. Harris:  It's it's this weird situation where I part part of the problem, I think, is he just doesn't have the same sense of urgency that I have.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Oh, interesting!
Michael J. Harris:  Because I.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  It would speculate. Why do you think he doesn't.
Michael J. Harris:  I I guess I maybe I'm just more
Michael J. Harris:  I mean, he's at a higher level, so he doesn't necessarily feel the need to get promoted soon.
Michael J. Harris:  whereas I sort of feel like
Michael J. Harris:  I'm I'm wasting my time at this level, and and if I don't.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Great.
Michael J. Harris:  If I can't get this project.
Michael J. Harris:  if I can't get promoted, then like.
Michael J. Harris:  what am I even doing here?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, yeah. Have you? Have you opened up to him about this about how important this is to you and how frustrating it's been to you. Does he
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  have you point blank, told them this privately. Maybe.
Michael J. Harris:  I guess I haven't. Now that I think about it.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I, yeah, I, sort of.
Michael J. Harris:  I assumed he would feel the same way. But maybe he doesn't. For some reason.
Michael J. Harris:  I I assume you would understand that I'm frustrated that it's not moving forward fast enough.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I would suggest, what's the harm in having a chat about it, and then asking him for his help.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  and you know, cause that that's a bit of a praise, but it's also it's true. And what if
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you know sometimes people that are senior to us
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  have a different life trajectory? Maybe he's thinking about retirement. That's why he's who knows right? If you don't know him super. Well.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  it's hard to know unless you're asking him, and maybe he surprises you. But again, at worst case scenario at least he knows, and you're asking for help.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  which then puts him in a senior status. It's it's respectful.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  They should feel less threatened at a minimum.
Michael J. Harris:  That makes sense.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  So we talked a bit about him. We've talked about your manager. Are there other
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  bottlenecks? Team dynamics, anything else that's getting in the way of your career.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Trajectory.
Michael J. Harris:  Let let me tell you, the other side of the
Michael J. Harris:  issue. So so that was sort of on the supplier side.
Michael J. Harris:  you know, visually visualizing our team as like a a
Michael J. Harris:  a middleman company that's buying something from one side and selling it to another side.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  The eventual consumer of our system is the
Michael J. Harris:  marketing, the the ad, basically the ads team.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay?
Michael J. Harris:  And they have a big, they have a big system
Michael J. Harris:  which is eventually going to on on board to the tool we build to
Michael J. Harris:  performance work. So so you know, instead of the old way they're using that's dying and nobody maintains it. They're gonna use it in this new system. We're we're doing.
Michael J. Harris:  And then, you know, it's gonna be more maintainable and hopefully, hopefully, that actually, the performance will be better. So they will actually be able to say.
Michael J. Harris:  you know, we increased our revenues by X percent.
Michael J. Harris:  The problem is this, you know, this, this client team of ours?
Michael J. Harris:  Th, there's a number of issues with that interface. So so one thing is that they want us to
Michael J. Harris:  onboard their system onto our products, that so they have. They have this big code base.
Michael J. Harris:  They will want us to tweak their code to use our tool instead of doing it themselves.
Michael J. Harris:  So that's a little bit odd, because
Michael J. Harris:  we don't know. We don't really know how their thing works. That's a lot of like
Michael J. Harris:  technical details there that
Michael J. Harris:  they know about, because they've been doing it for a long time. We don't really know about
Michael J. Harris:  That system is also not very well maintained either.
Michael J. Harris:  So one thing that happens is.
Michael J. Harris:  well, it's it's very hard to test. So a number of times we've
Michael J. Harris:  you know. I I made some changes to their product, to their code, and shipped those changes, got got it reviewed.
Michael J. Harris:  got it reviewed, got it pushed, pushed means center production
Michael J. Harris:  and and it ran in production. But it blew up because, some technical, some really
Michael J. Harris:  kind of embarrassing technical issue
Michael J. Harris:  like in in my personal code. This kind of issue never comes up. But in Linkedin code, like, it happens all the time.
Michael J. Harris:  Basically version incompatibilities between.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I gotcha.
Michael J. Harris:  Different libraries.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yep.
Michael J. Harris:  So the the point is that their system is really hard to work with.
Michael J. Harris:  It's very difficult for us to make changes to it.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I gotcha.
Michael J. Harris:  And.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  What? Why are they keen on you doing this? Then, if they've known some of that.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Do you have a sense for? Why, they're asking for you to do it.
Michael J. Harris:  I think they want. They they probably
Michael J. Harris:  feel that they don't have headcount.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  You know the managers are always thinking in terms of headcount, which I, which I.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Right.
Michael J. Harris:  Bad concept, but.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  I think their perspective is they haven't.
Michael J. Harris:  They don't have the budget in terms of the engineering resources to make this change for us.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I gotcha.
Michael J. Harris:  So the head count has to come from our.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I see I got you are there.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  This is typical in org design, right? The silos between departments. They're functional within and difficult to coordinate across.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Especially. And hence why, a lot of organizations are matrix. I'm wondering aloud
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  back, you know, 15 years ago, is this idea of extreme programming where it was always done in teams is, or a hackathon type of thing. Is there a way? Is there a model that
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  could get their needs met with
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  maybe less than a full headcount that they're worried about, but gets that expertise on the quirkiness of their legacy code. And then somebody from your team, you personally or someone else?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Is there something like that that you could brainstorm together with them, so that you point out some of the risks of the past and the challenges. So there's some more collaborative approach. And I'm not saying it has to be that extreme programming or hackathon thing. Is there a pair? Is there a model like that that can be explored.
Michael J. Harris:  It's possible. It's possible.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  What? What are some? What are some possibilities there that that could make sense.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  that would, that would get address your concern, but would also address theirs ideally.
Michael J. Harris:  So so one, yeah, it it.
Michael J. Harris:  One stumbling block is that this is this is actually quite a quite valuable system.
Michael J. Harris:  So nobody wants it to be offline like if it breaks, people have to jump and.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Well, that that's why I was asking you why, like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  having valuable code crash has to be career shortening for most people, so are they more worried about the risk. And they're just saying, headcount.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you know. Is it a political thing, or I don't want my neck in the news, or I'm gonna ex, you know. That's what I was wondering with you.
Michael J. Harris:  so so it's it crashes. But it's not like
Michael J. Harris:  it's a back end job. So so it runs once a day.
Michael J. Harris:  So if it crashes you, restart it, and then you it's not like you lose tons of money if it crashes
Michael J. Harris:  so I don't think it's that I think it's just like really hairy, unmaintained code.
Michael J. Harris:  You know, the the all these systems have this issue that once it becomes valuable, nobody.
Michael J. Harris:  Everyone's too scared to
Michael J. Harris:  change it or like improve it at all. So it gets just more like more and more tech debt. People are just making these tiny, tiny changes.
Michael J. Harris:  Tech debt builds up and up. Every time you make one of these tiny changes
Michael J. Harris:  it gets harder to maintain. It gets harder to make any future changes.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Makes sense.
Michael J. Harris:  So now it's to the point where it's just like a lot, even though it's a basically a small change that we're doing just like a lot of work to get there.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah. But so.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Can I just can. I just understand that a little bit? It? It seems like part of the reasons it's it's a lot of work is.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if you have no mental model of that history and that legacy, and
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  then it's just like you gotta learn all that, or or hope. Hope you can notice it, whatever the quirks are versus. If you've got somebody that's worked on that for years and knows it inside and out, and maybe it's not as well documented, and but they know it super well, and then you can help work on it together. Is that is that fair?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  In terms of would that would that partially address those risks?
Michael J. Harris:  So I think it'd be much more efficient if
Michael J. Harris:  they they actually had the responsibility for onboarding
Michael J. Harris:  onboarding our code in in their code base.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Is there a is there a support function, though, that you could play?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, like, Oh, yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  I mean I would I would be happy to do that.
Michael J. Harris:  But but it's again. It just comes back to this issue of the headcount like they they.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure I got it. So that's where I'm wondering allowed with new new actions for your manager. Is this something you could explore with your manager to say, look.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  it would reduce the risks, you know, all around, because it's super hard for
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  us to wrap our head around low, you know.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  buggy code or code that's legacy, and it's not well documented, and I don't know it. Well.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  it seems like it's less risky for the entire company. If we do it jointly, and this is the proposal I make, and see what she says, and see if she can help champion it with you. So it's not. You're not alone, right? You like you'd have a chorus of people
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  working on that that improved approach.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Presumably she's not gonna like delays in the project, either
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  is she? Is she frustrated or worried about the same things you're worried about on this.
Michael J. Harris:  She's frustrated and annoyed, but she has
Michael J. Harris:  tons of other things to worry about. So it's it's a small fraction of her total.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  but she'd rather not have headaches here. I mean it is again, is it? Is it too small for her to to
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  help? You have a kind like.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Would it be useful if she were convinced, and you could convince her to have a meeting or 2 with those other folks to talk about some alternative approach, and you arm her with a couple of options. So it's not a lot of work for her.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  That that is a good idea. I I will say that
Michael J. Harris:  the project, the initial negotiations for the project were not.
Michael J. Harris:  She was not involved. So so is the the tech lead that I've been bellyaching about
Michael J. Harris:  was negotiating with this client team.
Michael J. Harris:  and sort of persuaded them that this was a good strategy.
Michael J. Harris:  So so she doesn't have a lot of context in this project. But
Michael J. Harris:  but it's still a good potential option for seeing if we can get some additional support.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Well, let's see, we're we've got a few more minutes left in our hour together. We've talked a bit about the technical lead and some possible actions you could take there your manager. And now this new, this other department, and some of the constraints there, if, as you step back from all of it. Do you have a mentor?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I'm not talking about our relationship as a coach. But do you have a mentor.
Michael J. Harris:  Yep.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  And if so, can you tell me about him or her.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, I I at 1 point had a mentor. Linkedin is very big on mentoring. They want people to mentor and be mentored.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  I met I met with him for about 6 months.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  He was fine. I I don't necessarily.
Michael J. Harris:  I guess what I should have
Michael J. Harris:  conferred with them more about is
Michael J. Harris:  sort of like these questions that we've been discussing in terms of like, how to manage relationships, how to
Michael J. Harris:  navigate political disagreements.
Michael J. Harris:  But but my mental model of that relationship was more like a technical experience.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure.
Michael J. Harris:  Which I didn't.
Michael J. Harris:  I didn't find that very useful.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure. Sure. Well, I'm just wondering. Is is this person someone?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That's that's been at Linkedin for years before you are they?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Are they politically connected enough to know some of the the cultural constraints or some of the political winds that may shift around.
Michael J. Harris:  And I don't think he he's probably been there a couple of years longer than me.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  But not like forever.
Michael J. Harris:  Let me! Let me!
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Just yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
Michael J. Harris:  I guess they thought he would be a good mentor, because he was able to
Michael J. Harris:  get a pretty big project completed.
Michael J. Harris:  and as a result got promoted. So like.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Nice.
Michael J. Harris:  We're successful at what I'm trying to do.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  But I just wanted to explore this a bit further with you. There's nothing that says. You only have to have one mentor, and maybe he was fine for what he was at the time you had him.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I'm just wondering. Can you think of somebody you respect? Maybe they're something like you might want to be in the future right there. They've they've had their maybe multiple promotions. They've been there a long time. They're they're credible with the powerful people at Linkedin that you could just buy them a coffee, or say, can I meet with you once every other month or something? Would you mind mentoring me, and then.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  ideally, this is not in your chain of command, right? Ideally. It's like a safe place where you could open up because they might.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if you, if you were to find some one or 2 people like this doesn't have to be just one person, but one or 2 people, they might give you political perspective. I couldn't possibly right, because I just don't know Linkedin well enough. Is that, can you? You have to tell me their name? But can you think of one or 2 people that might be? They're just like you, career wise. Maybe they've also got a Phd in computer science. They've had a couple of successes. They've got the ear of very powerful people, and so they're they've been there long enough. They've got a different mental model than you on the political scene.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, that's a good idea. I I would have to think about I
Michael J. Harris:  who, you know, I'd have to study the arc org charts a little bit and say, like, Okay, who?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  Around who's done this? But yeah, it's good.
Michael J. Harris:  Do you think I mean, do you think they would be willing to do that?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Usually I mean again back to honest praise. Right? You. You find things you honestly, genuinely want to learn from them. You praise them for it, or even better, does your manager know them? Could she make an intro.
Michael J. Harris:  Right.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  You know. Say, I'm looking for a mentor. Could you make this introduction or so, or the technical lead, you know same thing?
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, that's a good idea.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  But but here's the other angle. It doesn't have to be somebody currently at Linkedin. Maybe they recently retired. Maybe they're they used to work at Linkedin, and now, like
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  they don't even have to have been at Linkedin, if they're like quite savvy with
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  corporate politics and stuff, and they can tell you how they finesse this type stuff.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  but I think it's better if it's if Linkedin is quite quirky or I don't know. Is it quite distinct from Microsoft's culture? Or is Microsoft's culture and Linkedin blurred together
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  these days.
Michael J. Harris:  Microsoft does not control Linkedin.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  Closely.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I got you so it'd be better
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  for whatever quirks Linkedin has, and whatever power players, if you could get the inside track. But if you can't find that person currently employed by Linkedin.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  somebody that recently retired, or.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you know, recently went somewhere else. But but use but knows the players at Linkedin within the last take, say, 2 years.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, yeah, that's a good idea.
Michael J. Harris:  I I guess this is I. And and other people have told me I should try to get get over this. I have this sort of reluctance to ask people for help
Michael J. Harris:  in the sense that.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I hear you.
Michael J. Harris:  If I'm asking someone to mentor me like, what does he get out of it as a.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Well, so that's fair. There's a concept called reverse mentoring, too.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Now, some of the people like you, you pointed correctly out that that technical lead hasn't really written code in a while. Does he really know the latest on Llms? Does he really? Does he feel strong on prompt engineering right now I'll tell you the former.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  the the founder of Infosys. That was my mentor. When I was at emphasys, he would, he would insist on only having 2122 year old computer scientists as his as his interns, because he was like, you know, he's
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  in his sixties. So he was quite far away from that, and he felt like he learned a lot about how
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  their their styles and stuff like that. And of course, as chairman or he's he's, I think he called himself Chief Mentor. He wasn't even chairman anymore. Right? He was kind of retired. He was so far out of that world. So you know, that's something you could offer him on the latest stuff.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  But just buy them lunch, I mean in mentors I've had in the past with my last company I would buy my mentor lunch once once every month or so
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  at their at a restaurant they like to go to, or something like that. So even if they don't want to learn anything from you but
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you don't have to have just one. Generally people find back to the Ben Franklin right? He asked for advice. He asked to borrow things from an enemy. Then they became friends. So in general, asking for advice is an honor because you respect them and their point of view. And if you, said Linkedin already has a mentoring culture, that's only it should be expected that they should be mentoring. And
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, it's good. Point.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah. And if if your managers
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  vouching for you as somebody that's not gonna waste their time, that doesn't hurt you either.
Michael J. Harris:  Right? Right?
Michael J. Harris:  Good idea. Yeah. So I'll I'll maybe I'll ask my man, my manager, to suggest someone who could.
Michael J. Harris:  Sure, sure, strategic choice.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, we've we've got just a couple of minutes left in our hour together. What?
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Let's just talk about some of the next steps we talked about a lot of possibilities, both for that technical lead for your manager, for that other, that other function that was tricky to work with with. And then the mentoring stuff. Wh, which of those sound like the most practical and useful for you in terms of what you want to do next to kinda
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  address this.
Michael J. Harris:  Well, I think you know, asking my manager
Michael J. Harris:  there's there's a couple of things to ask my manager. One is to potentially recommend a mentor.
Michael J. Harris:  Another is to try to
Michael J. Harris:  convince the client team to add some of their own resources to this project.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yep.
Michael J. Harris:  And then, as far as the tech lead goes, I think it's more about trying to communicate to him
Michael J. Harris:  in a way that's clear, but also respectful that you know I'm frustrated.
Michael J. Harris:  I want to move the project faster.
Michael J. Harris:  I want to brainstorm ways. We can clear out these roadblocks.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, I think those would be good, I think, telling them that. And then
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  maybe before that, was there any of that honest praise. We talked about that that you feel like you could say early. Maybe, before you talk about the complaints and the frustrations.
Michael J. Harris:  Sure. Yeah. So I'll say, you know, I respect
Michael J. Harris:  your knowledge of all these Linkedin search technologies.
Michael J. Harris:  Clearly, clearly, you know more about what's going on in like the internals of those tools?
Michael J. Harris:  You know. Can can you? Can you teach me a little bit more about it?
Michael J. Harris:  Maybe with an eye towards moving the project faster.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yeah, I like that. I like that. And then maybe just after that, maybe turn your concern and your complaint into a question. Are you as frustrated technical lead as I am on the following.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, I, and and maybe just express your
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  you get, you know, you'd like to see him be successful, just like you want to be here. I'm wondering aloud, too, if you can ask him and or your manager
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  about that promotion and what it would take if if it's mostly interesting work.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  ask them what that looks like. Typically like you have one mental model, but it'd be good to get theirs, because, like I'll just tell you, in my case, every promotion I ever got I pretty much was already doing the damn job.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  and I didn't get permission. I like I just did it, and I did a good job, and they're like Duh. Of course he should be doing that, so I'm wondering aloud if
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  sometimes, you know, there's an emergency project here or a special project there that either a technical lead or a manager might know about and give you. And and if it's visible that could only be better to get you that more influence that you're looking for technically is that is that a question you could ask them both. Possibly that. So so you're challenging your own understanding of what the promotion even looks like. If you know there's the the stupid typical Hr rules, but the reality might be quite different than that. Is that possible?
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, I think you know, Linkedin does instruct everyone
Michael J. Harris:  to talk to their managers about career growth.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, I I'll ask them
Michael J. Harris:  more about that and and see if I can get a clearer picture. I I think that
Michael J. Harris:  yeah, it's always a little bit tricky asking those kinds of questions, or a little bit sensitive.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  That's fair. So I mean another way around it. To make sure it's not sensitive is.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  if you notice something creative that would be really related to their goals or your shared goals. But nobody's brought it up volunteering to do it
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  right. That that's another angle. Because then you're an innovator. You're a problem solver
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  again. As long as it's aligned with your shared goals
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  they should at least be willing to talk about it. And even better. What if you get to lead that thing.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, that's that's a good idea.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Most of the patents I did. I didn't get go ask permission, especially not in Hr. Right? But as a techno geeky psychologist I just did it. And of course, then I became a real weirdo.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  You know, in Hr. How many Hr. People do you know that have a bunch of patents right? Not none that I know other than me. It's the same thing with you, right? If you've got all these technical skills and you're creative, and you want to get ahead.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  putting your creative problem, solving on their wicked problems in ways that they haven't considered
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  ideally, that don't take a bunch of resources that could be that could position you in a different way as an innovator.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  particularly if you're in a back office right? If you're if you're in a back end. You're not like a you're a cost center. You're not a revenue center, but you're thinking in that way that could even be better.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah. Yeah.
Michael J. Harris:  Sounds good. Matt.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Let's let's talk about next next coaching session. Does.
Michael J. Harris:  Yes.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  We'll we'll certainly revisit this. Are there any other goals that you're you're you're thinking about, that we might talk about in our next coaching session. After we reflect on how these these actions went.
Michael J. Harris:  I I want to do more work with Llms.
Michael J. Harris:  There. There's a little bit of chatter at Linkedin about Llms, but not as still. Still, not
Michael J. Harris:  a lot, you know. It's not.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Because why not?
Michael J. Harris:  they they.
Michael J. Harris:  So there's a big price issue.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Yep.
Michael J. Harris:  So so we have a certain amount of quota. We get quota from Microsoft. Microsoft has the hosted.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Sure.
Michael J. Harris:  The stuff of the open ad
Michael J. Harris:  but it's but it's a pretty limited quota.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Okay.
Michael J. Harris:  So I'm trying to. You know, I think
Michael J. Harris:  this is going to potentially impact a lot of different places.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Of course.
Michael J. Harris:  May. Maybe what I'm saying is that there's like a couple of people who have kind of been designated as Llm.
Michael J. Harris:  Innovators. So they they've been.
Michael J. Harris:  They've been chosen to like projects and get some quota and
Michael J. Harris:  try to do something cool. Whereas the the rank and file hasn't hasn't really
Michael J. Harris:  had that opportunity. So much so. So you have to sort of like maneuver a little bit. There.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Gotcha I got you, but that's the kind of thing where, if you were focusing on the dependent variables, the outcomes that your manager and others are losing sleep over and finding creative ways that maybe they're not thinking of where Llm is. The de facto. Better way to solve the problem that is, is open source, completely verboten at Linkedin. Or is that is that? Is that okay? If you could make a compelling business case for it, would they allow you to use. Llama 3.
Michael J. Harris:  I think they would.
Michael J. Harris:  But so so the thing about open AI is that
Michael J. Harris:  they're partners with Microsoft. We're owned by Microsoft. So there's definitely a big push towards.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I get that I get that I just mean if cost is the issue, then oh, if.
Michael J. Harris:  You know it's not the cost. It's it's really the cost of the hardware.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I see the virtualized hardware.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah, yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Gotcha.
Michael J. Harris:  That everyone's short on Gpus these days.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  I got it, I got it. And that's that's gonna be a problem for open source or.
Michael J. Harris:  Yeah.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  Gpt, 4. Yeah, I got you good. Well, it's gonna been a good session. I look forward to
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  hearing how your your action items go. I wish you well on.
Matthew Samuels (he/him):  and that, by the way, is called Feed forward. It's about new behaviors other people can do, and that's a lot less threatening than feedback, so err on the side of new actions as opposed to feedback on what went wrong in the past.
Michael J. Harris:  Okay, I like it. I like it.
Michael J. Harris:  Right?